.TH ALARMD 8 "Oct  3, 2006" "Nokia"

.SH NAME
alarmd \- daemon that provides timed event functionality

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alarmd
[\fIOPTION\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B alarmd
is a daemon that provides timed event functionality for applications
to get DBus messages or exec calls at certain times.

Applications register an event happening at certain time.
.B alarmd
will then call the application when the event is due, so the application
need not be running during this waiting period. This is useful for
applications that need to update their status on regular intervals.

A single event may be set to repeat itself over and over again, at given
interval.
.B alarmd
will remember these events over system shutdowns too.

.B alarmd
can also be asked to start the system up for an event even from poweroff.
These events may also prefer to be run in hidden poweron mode, where the
display stays off, but the device is on.
.B alarmd
also supports usage of osso-systemui-alarm to show an alarm dialog for the
event, which can be followed by a power up device confirmation dialog,
if the device is in the hidden powerup mode.

Communication with the daemon is done through DBus. It listens on both
system and session buses. The easiest way is to use the C client api
library, which offers straightforward API to modify the queue. You can
also use
.BR alarmtool (8),
which wraps the functionality of the client library.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-daemonflag
Run
.B alarmd
as a daemon
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help for the command
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/alarmd.pid
PID-file used by
.B
alarmd.
.TP
.I /var/lib/alarmd/alarm_queue.xml
The queue file used by
.B
alarmd.
.TP
.I /var/lib/alarmd/next_alarm_mode
Mode of next event that powers the device up; valid values are
.BR n/a
if there's no powerup event in the queue,
.BR actdead
if the device should be powered up to the hidden poweron mode and
.BR powerup
if the device shuold be fully powered up.
.TP
.I /var/lib/alarmd/next_alarm_time
Time (seconds since epoch) of the next event that powers the device up.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR alarmtool (8)
.BR mce (8)

.SH HISTORY
Oct  3 2006: Initial version of this manual page.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006 Nokia Corporation.

This is free software; see /usr/share/common-licenses/LGPL-2.1 for license
conditions.  There is NO  warranty;  not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
